Okay, the machine is on.
What are you going to eat?
I'm going out tonight, so I'm just going to have a beer or something like that.
I like the idea that this is a... I'm going to start with an artifact.
Okay.
Yeah, I want to start with a book.
We're really obviously going to focus on the booklet.
That, in your preface...
You see this as a biography, as an autobiography.
It's a casual remark.
It wasn't the main point, I think.
It was the one suggestion.
But it does form an autobiography.
Pick up a little bit of that.
In what respect?
Would you think of writing?
I keep journals.
I don't think I could ever write a film autobiography.
It's too large a job.
I've got enough trouble keeping up with the poetry writing and the music and the photography and the journals and the interviews and essays.
And I'm way years behind in editing all that, so to take on another project and put my back.
But the poetry does serve... Okay, the poetry serves as an autobiography of moments when I wake up in the middle of my life and look around
inside or outside, and notate that efficiently.
But it doesn't cover the drama or exciting moments particularly.
It just covers those moments when I wake up and look.
I read that really fine piece in the Paris Review interview 20 years ago.
I like that.
It's nice.
I re-read it again last night.
It was probably one of the best interviews I ever did.
And that was almost untouched.
I noticed that that was basically unedited.
He said that he did it
That's very unusual for those interviews.
Quote, the spirit of the universe was what I was born to realize.
I don't know what I meant then, but the spirit I would define as breath, from Latin spiritus, breathing.
And basically I think of poetry as unobstructed breath.
that is complete breath, vocalization of the whole body and mind and speech together.
And now, by hindsight, long hindsight, say six years afterward, I began getting involved with meditation practice, and meditation is also on the breath.
Using the breath as a vehicle for waking up and becoming conscious of what's going on unconsciously or what's going on automatically.
If you're breathing all the time but you don't notice it.
So you're seeing things all the time so you don't notice it.
So with poetry or with meditation you begin noticing what you notice.
So in that sense realizing the spirit of the universe beginning with the breath.
Let's start where you thought we might want to start, the artifact, because I would like to get that done.
Yeah.
I figured it was my one and only chance to put my hand on, in the construction of an artifact, a book of complete collected poems from early to present.
Well, fellas, I had noticed it.
Okay, well, I...
What an only chance to make a book of all my work, poetry, as I would idealize it.
So the contract I signed gave me right of approval on the artifact itself.
So I had a complete cloth binding, acid-free paper, sewn binding, a cloth cover, sewn binding.
And then I didn't like the cover they did.
So I commissioned an artist, Harry Smith, to determine the optics of the cover, bright, imperial red.
Is there symbolism in all this for you, or is it just something else?
Actually, those are classic Chinese Buddhist colors.
a Buddhist insignia that I'd seen in Bodhgaya originally, which would be stamped on all the books, on all six volumes, so a uniform edition.
So I had to think in town for the uniform edition for Long Rain and the elegance possible.
And then for models, Harry Smith, the painter, filmmaker, and a great man, actually, was mentioned in some of the poems.
suggested the Oxford Greek-English lexicon for tight space, and the Yeats very arm edition of plays McMillan for the design of the cover.
What did this tell you?
About you, about your place.
I mean, this is indicative of something, isn't it, I think?
About your poetry?
Well, I held out a long time and stayed with City Lights, which had elegant little books.
I thought they were nicely designed.
I mean, what I'm saying is maybe the literary establishment is...
as hostile now as it perhaps might... No, that's not the case.
So not altogether.
There still is the various stereotypes that they haven't overcome.
One is the stereotype of public football.
The other is the stereotype of ageism, like the early poems are great and interesting, but the later poems we don't bother to read or review or notice or mention.
Why is that, do you think?
Lack of attention.
Lack of attentiveness.
You know, just like I'm looking.
Lack of noticing.
You think there's a perception among some that maybe you are of an era?
Stereotype?
Oh, yes.
The other stereotype is, oh, this was great for the 60s, and it's our 50s or 60s or 70s.
Sometimes it's the 40s, sometimes the 50s.
Sometimes the stereotype is of the 60s.
But it varies even.
Even the stereotype doesn't get itself straight.
And a complete ignoring of the entire Buddhist development and the implications of that.
And a lack of exploration of what that is in terms of meditation.
You were quoted in the Paris Review piece
as saying how interested you were in doing an epic poem.
Is this still something that... Not really.
The whole book may be composed of some kind of autobiographical epic.
I'm not talking about this particular book.
I don't think I'd be able to do anything.
Whatever you were talking about 20 years ago.
Well, it was an idea.
It was in my head.
A charming idea.
Yeah, but I don't think I have a Kerouac epic scope.
I think Kerouac had epic scope.
Yeah, but you didn't know that.
It initiated an epic.
It was Zuloa's legend.
Oh, yeah.
He completed it.
How about Kerouac's place now?
Do you think that his stature is eroding, or do you think it's stronger than ever?
Do you think he's important?
I think he's more important than ever now.
Eclat that my book makes is due to Karolaj teaching me how to write poetry.
You said that, and Karolaj really wasn't a poet per se, but then you say, read his long sentences.
Or read his Mexico City Blues, or Scattered Poets, or Heaven, three books, or unpublished poetry, which I've read.
And it's amazing.
It's great.
I think it's the seminal book of poetry of the latter half of the century.
How is this an imitation of Israel?
It's a prose line.
Not just.
I mean, Hal takes off from his prose line, modeled on his prose line, except he wrote longer lines than me.
And maybe more eloquent, I'd say.
What is it that Kerouac had specially that says uniquely, shall we say?
A fantastic ear.
A great ear for sound.
for the vowels and consonants, which you can hear in his recordings.
His pronunciation is exquisite.
And my reading style is taking off from this.
My quote-celebrated, unquote, reading style is really inspired by his precision in pronouncing, appreciating his consonants and savoring his vowels.
Had he not died so tragically,
kind of a force.
I mean, this is a silly question, but he'd still be a fairly young man.
He'd be riding high right now with all these Regans around.
Because he, Carol was middle America, but shrewder than Regan and that thinkery.
And Carolack had real reason to be unafraid of him.
I think so, as he said, here at Harvard, at Lowell House.
But also, the second thing is, Carolack introduced a lot of themes in
popular terminology like Buddhist meditation.
And third, he had a gift of association in the stenographer of his mind that turned on me and Gary Snyder and Michael McClure and any number of poets.
If you ask the young poets, the real people, the people who really are into the mechanics of poetry,
about Caroline, you'll find that her poetry is very highly regarded by poets who are very highly regarded.
Ask Robert Creeley.
Creeley thinks Caroline is a major poet.
Just ask any of them.
Snyder, Creeley, I don't know what poets you like.
It may be different for me.
That was an extraordinary gathering of people, wasn't it?
Yeah.
Well, I mean, so were the Beatles' extraordinary gathering.
Yeah, but that was...
basically one group, but I mean, all this writing talent that seemed to come out at one time, almost like Paris in the 20s.
Yeah.
I mean, was it the type of situation where one would energize the other?
Yeah, we all turned each other on.
I think, again, a major element was Kerouac's sense of sympathy and sympathy tolerance, his tenderheartedness, which is run throughout his writing.
which he had in person.
Despite all the vagaries of being drunk or anything, there was a tremendous vulnerability and softness in him.
Where do you think he was moving with this?
Appreciativeness.
Where was he moving with his writing?
Was he moving?
Well, I don't see his last years as a tragedy.
As Philip Whelan says, the Caroway play was hardly a tragedy.
I mean, he produced an enormous literature.
He turned the literary world over.
inspired any number of young kids and elegant poets, was writing the day he died, produced in his last eight years as much as any novel was produced, you know, Big Sur, Vanity of Dual Arts, Leenda Pick, enormous amount of essays and poetry.
Poetry hasn't even been published.
You know, his work was as voluminous.
I wonder why that is.
Less voluminous than when he was young.
If the poetry is as outstanding as you indicated, I'm sure it is, why hasn't it been published?
Because it is published.
I thought you told me there was a lot of it.
Oh, his widow won't allow anything of this to be published posthumously.
I've talked to her, Stella Karouac says, nothing will be public while I'm alive.
While she's alive.
And she's sitting on several books.
Some of the Dharma, one book.
Wake Up, A Life of the Buddha.
Scattered Pomes.
Pomes, P-O-M-E-S, all sizes, pomes all sizes.
Except the blues.
It's a formal title.
Pomes all sizes, including the blues.
Is she figuring this out?
She wasn't really married to him that long ago.
Yeah, she was married.
Well, she took care of his mother.
Yeah.
There's some kind of psychic tangle between them.
Like, maybe it's not public written about them, but...
I just won't use it, but it's nice.
As an alcoholic, very often you lay your anger on the people that you're closest to and most dependent on, you know, guilt or shame or irritability or irrationality.
And so a month before he died, he wrote to Edie Parker, his first wife, that he wanted to see her, and then wrote her again that he was too sick.
And he wrote to his nephew, Paul, sister's son,
the only surviving camera.
Do you want to leave him?
And I've seen the letter.
Stella got in touch with me after he died and asked if I could connect her with his daughter, Jan, and assured me it was not for any purpose of cutting her out of the will, but just have her sign a paper solution to sell the house.
And then a lawyer went up to her and gave her, which was 18 and it was spaced out, and gave her $500 to sign away any inheritance.
There is even some question about his will.
Is there another will that they suppress?
The legal fact now is that Jan Kerouac, as first blood relation, daughter, established by court, is the legal inheritor of happiness, the state of everything published after 1958, where of everything that copyright of 25 years has expired,
Because no matter what the will, the legal statement is that children, after that 25-year period, the state... How about the unpublished stuff?
That would be the same.
Where is this material physically?
Is that in the hands of a publisher?
It's in a wrong place.
It's in a vulnerable...
Attic.
Oh, Jesus.
And I went up there in 75.
You know, let's just put it someplace where it can be safeguarded, you know?
I went up there in 1975 with Bob Dylan, who... Bob went into Lola?
Yeah, we gave a rolling thunder concert there.
We visited his grave.
And Dillon read some poems over his grave, and we filmed it for a Rinaldo and Clara movie.
And the scene is in the movie.
And going out, I said, what's your interest in Carolach?
He said, oh, Carolach turned me on to poetry.
When I was in 1959, someone handed me a copy of Mexico City Blues, and it blew my mind, and introduced me to poetry that had talked to me.
I mean, even Dillon was influenced by Carolus, as well as Creeley, Snyder, McClure, Waylon, myself, even Burroughs.
This is the type of thing that will become more apparent 20 years, 40 years from now, I think.
But it's definitely visible.
The reason, however, and I'm going back, why is Carolus not known as a poet?
Or not appreciated as known.
I'm saying he's known...
It's pretty nearly universally by generations of poets of the Black Mountain, San Francisco, and New York schools.
They all know it.
You just ask anybody that goes to the St.
Mark's Poetry Project in New York or hangs around San Francisco poetry scene, or any of the elders and youngers.
It's universally appreciated by the poets.
Not at all in any anthology, not at all taught in school, except where we teach.
He really teaches Caroway.
The reason, I think, was Caroway was so abused by the critics during his life, and put down, and especially put down by his so-called proponent, Kenneth Raskin, that when the book Mexico City Blues came out, the major review in the New York Times by Rex Ross,
He denounced the book, said it was separating the men from the boys in Carpenter, the stupid kids that didn't have any discipline, didn't know how to write.
He was sorry he'd never prayed and catwagged at all.
It was the most vicious review of the message.
Because Kenneth Rexroth thought that Jack Howard had been fucking his wife Martha with Robert Creeley when Martha was trying to run away from him.
It comes down to that.
It came down to that.
You know, you hear these stories so often about why a certain person gets assigned a book.
You're doing something very petty and very simple.
Rexroth was supposed to be...
You know, Mr. Duton was the protector of the San Francisco scene, and he had pushed Caroline 5 with Malcolm Kelly, and then there was this problem with his wife, in which Rexroth almost committed suicide, on the floor chewing the rug, and the cerebral weeping, and his wife had to go back to him completely, and Rexroth had the hallucination that we were all having orgies with his wife in my cottage.
and wouldn't talk to me for a couple of years.
And it was just out of his head.
I did an interview with Robert Giroux a couple of years back.
His Shakespeare book came out.
And, you know, inevitably you ask about Kerouac.
He told the story of how he lost on the road.
And Kerouac came in with this
It was all rolled up.
He just threw it out.
Here it is.
He lost.
No, he didn't lose it, but he said, well... He didn't read it.
Yeah, well, what's happened?
He said, geez, why did you do it like that for?
I mean, how are we going to edit it?
He said, edit it?
He said, this was inspired by the Holy Spirit, according to Giroud.
Yes, and it was.
Giroud didn't believe in the Holy Spirit enough.
So Giroud said, I really made a mistake.
I shouldn't have said that.
Well, you should have read it.
He led to Melvis Cowley with it.
He hadn't even read it.
I have with me a caroac.
correspondence to Milton Kelly.
I'm just reading all that over.
But they did finally edit it, I think.
Much less than people think.
Much less to see that, right?
Yeah.
I kept writing to Kelly that he was editing it for him, blah, blah, blah.
He was just delaying it to make him think he was editing.
And he made some such or so to be more readable.
So really it's...
It's not the same manuscript because it was divided into paragraphs.
Look at that kind of creative editing for an editor, the Max Perkins type of school.
It might have been good for Wolf, but Kerouac was more of a literary man than any of his editors and a better writer than any of his editors, and he really knew what he was doing.
It wasn't until he got into Don Allen's hands that the editor respected him and published Subterraneans.
Subterraneans is... How does that stuff stand up?
Great.
All the Parallax books are now in print and read widely, which was not so in his lifetime.
See, as time goes on, more and more people are able to read it.
Faulkner was out of print in his lifetime.
Yeah.
A lot of people.
John Wieners, who I think is the greatest poet in New England, has been in and out of mental hospitals.
There's not one single book of his imprint.
and Black Sparrow Press is now preparing a collective wiener.
Do you know wiener, sir?
I'm sorry, I don't know his work.
You still give Donnell an anthology.
No, the name is wiener.
I'm weak in forgery, confess.
Well, that's my specialty.
I don't expect other people to be so eager.
Well, it's a failing.
I was just down in New York for the National Book Critic Circle thing.
Sharon Oldswood won the award.
I didn't vote.
Is that 1984?
Yeah.
Is my vote?
84 or 85.
Yeah, yours is this year.
Now, there might be one problem with this.
I don't know what the rule is, but I think it has to be material that is largely written that year, so there may be a problem.
Don't let me judge on that, but it doesn't matter.
I think the book is really quite an achievement.
A little get on the zone, get around the zone of pride.
I noticed also in the prefatory remarks that you mentioned that you did go back and change a few things that have been bugging you always.
So that would make these earlier things rather important variant readings, wouldn't it, to collect these?
What types of things did you go in and change?
I think I mentioned a few words in Sunflower Sutra.
At the last line, you repeated the words.
Nuts and bolts type things, right?
Nothing in terms of... No, no changes in them.
philosophy.
Just the phrasing that was irritatingly awkward or repetitious words that I never noticed until I began checking it out again at the end of Sunflower Syndrome.
And I also added in a few phrases to former America so that I wouldn't have to footnote them.
Like, I once saw Israel after playing.
So now it's, I once saw the Yiddish order Israel after playing.
These are really very... These enrich the line and give an indication of what it's about.
You know, just adding more images.
I think for someone who's never... Have you ever run into people now who are reading you for the first time?
Yeah, a lot.
Half of these people say, oh, I just discovered your reality.
Someone gave me reality sandwiches, which is my weakest book, I thought.
And I've carried it around everything.
And I say, did you read Catter?
She says, no, what's that?
So I don't know.
A lot of readers come from having heard or seen my name or heard me sing on the Clash album two years ago, like young kids, 13-year-olds, and then they go check out a book.
Some people from Dilla, years ago, used to pick up on my fortune because Dilla talked about her on the back of one of the record records.
because I was in the Rolling Thunder tomorrow.
Were you in the Rolling Thunder?
Yeah.
Because that was in Worcester.
I saw that thing in Worcester.
Yeah, in Worcester.
I was on stage at the end seeing This Land and Your Land.
Nobody said anything about it.
No, they didn't have to.
I was just along as sort of a mascot, the resident philosopher.
That was a hell of a show.
It was great.
That was something.
I was on that with Peter Olowski and his girlfriend.
for about four months, touring around.
And then I ran into the group.
We're up in Quebec City, and they're up in Quebec City, and Dylan is out in some cars and buggy out there shooting some shots.
Did you ever see the movie?
I didn't.
I got the fourth starring role.
Hello, please.
Here's Dylan's idea.
Exactly.
Yeah, that would be good.
Dylan's idea was to present me to his audience in the movie.
Actually, literally try and, you know, see what he had to present me as he saw me.
in the movie, and so he gave me a role as father figure, a poet father.
That's kind of touching, isn't it?
Very sweet, made me cry.
But do you find that a lot of these new readers, let's face it, a lot of your poetry was shocking to many people?
I don't think nowadays, to any younger, very little, very shocking now, to any younger kid.
Is that a function of a poet to shop?
Function of a poet?
Is there anything the poet wants to do?
I think there's no defined form.
Well, there's no defined role.
Make a real try, not too oily.
How is this?
Maybe a little too much gravy.
I'm sorry.
I'm really not good.
I don't know the Harvard Square scene that intimately.
All right.
But it was for them walking this time.
I don't have to stop up the gravy.
Oh, yeah.
Thank you.
I choose my function, so to speak.
And what I want to do is extend poetry as far out as you could toward vocalization and toward the bodhisattva communication.
Poetry is a...
I'm sorry, what was that last phrase?
Bodhisattva.
Communication.
It's a Buddhist term.
Could you spell it for me?
V-O-D-H-I-S-A-T-T-V-A.
Thank you.
Bodhi.
Awakened mind.
Essence awakened mind.
Which involves serving others.
Making yourself vulnerable to others.
Relieving others' pain.
By...
He's throwing down your defenses and letting them see what's inside you so they get less paranoid about what's inside them.
So confession is good for the soul, here go.
Not quite so confession.
There's so much confession that requires a sin.
Does it necessarily, I wonder?
In a Catholic context, yeah.
And I'm orthodox, I should know better.
Well, also there's a school of confessional poetry, which is less literary, I mean, it's literary rather than ethical.
You know, I think my poetry is ethical in the sense of...
Like in Whitman, I celebrate myself and sing myself.
And what I should assume, you should assume.
For every atom of me is going to belong to you.
For every weirdness of me is the same as your weirdness.
For every raw heart in me is the same as your raw heart.
For every sensitivity in me, you're no less sensitive.
So it's setting an example.
of what Whitman asked for, which was candor.
He used that word over and over again in democratic vistas, prophesying what the poet should be.
And he asked for candor, and I think it's great.
It's a very interesting distinction, candor, as opposed to confession.
Confession.
because confession is very egocentric.
Candor is just ordinary practice that you might have between you and yourself or you and your best friends.
And if you can't talk to your best friends in poetry, then who are you talking to?
Okay, so we're talking poetry as conversation, in other words.
As speech?
As speech.
And it kind of goes back to what you were saying to the Nigerian fellow.
Yeah.
You seem fascinated by this ability of these people to be able to recite songs that they've heard just once.
And then all of a sudden you're asking about the philosophical.
Clearly this is something that you think about.
The notion of flux, related to the notion of the nature of the mind, flux of perceptions and thoughts, thought forms as they say, related to method of composition, first thought, best thought, i.e., primordial thought.
or raw thought, one after another as they come, as a way of composition, which is terawax, spontaneous improvisation.
First thought, best thought.
First thought is best thought.
Meaning, chronologically,
In the sequence of thought forms that arises in your mind during the time of composition, there is a flash of recollection, say, pictorial, generally, of a situation.
Maybe slush on galoshes on Franklin Street.
where the dog barks.
In the telegraph, in the telegraph.
I saw pictures in the telephone poles.
Wires are hung with ice drops.
So then you might say, tough weather in Cambridge.
But that wasn't the first thought.
Tough weather in Cambridge wasn't the first thought.
The first thought was the visual flash of the ice drops and the dog barking wild little slush on Franklin Street.
But what's better then?
Oh, I think the first... But why can't you verbalize that first?
I did, just then.
In tough... What was it in Cambridge?
Oh, because tough weather in Cambridge, because that eliminates all the details.
It eliminates the picture.
And it eliminates your first thought and sublimates it into a generalization.
Is your mind working like this all the time?
Are you thinking politically?
I have often wondered if Shakespeare thought in imagery.
I think he thought the way he wrote.
You do believe this.
That the man would throw 15 metaphors at you in one sentence.
Hello?
I don't think it was that.
It's just ordinary mind, I think.
Victorio.
I think Kerouac's point was that when you edit, to simplify it and socialize it and make it sound like...
same as any tough weather in Cambridge or something, you lose the pungency and vividness of the original perception.
So we're trying to define what do I mean by first thought, original perception, or primordial mind.
The sensory flash that you have before you verbalize, and that goes with paroads,
suggestion from writing, quote, don't stop to think of the words, but to see the picture better.
Very brilliant tactical advice for a learner.
Don't stop to think of the words.
You get tangled in, you know, verbal association, your stream of consciousness, rather than the actual
original mind that was vividly impressed.
So go back to the original mind's impression and then verbalize it, get the words come out of it.
If you've got a real picture, then the words are easy.
If you have no picture, then you have to make up something in words that really don't relate, have no reference to your experience.
So when he says don't stop to think of the words to see the picture better, that's the technical
instructions for how do you write spontaneously, which requires a discipline of remembering what you saw or noticing what you noticed.
Noticing what you noticed, rather than passing it over and sort of homogenizing it into something that may echo somebody else's previous poetry.
Now, I read where Harper will be publishing also your journals, your letters.
I just delivered a book of collected prose.
Pardon me?
That shouldn't be fascinating.
I suppose to be.
I'm curious as to why you would want your letters, though, in journals, released, you know, now.
That's a euphemism to say why you're lying.
No.
So I can edit it myself before I take the book out.
Or edit up to this day.
Because I wrote a lot that's not ever been published or went public scattered around.
a lot of places and nobody knows it.
And I've explained myself a million times over and over, or Kerouac, or Gregory Porceau, or Shakespeare, or Blake, or whatever else they say.
But it's not in any form where anybody can get their hands on it.
They can go back to an old issue of Paris Review.
I don't mean the prose so much.
I mean the letters in the journal, which one would think is almost by definition private writing.
No.
No, the prose certainly has its place in print right now, I think.
Journals from 23 years ago are ancient history.
The book being edited now is Journals of 50, being edited by Gordon Ball.
And the typescript is ready now, I have to compare it with the original journal handwriting.
But I published two volumes of journals already.
Indian journals from City Lights.
This is a good book, actually, with photographs.
And then a book called Journals, Early 50s, Early 60s.
This is quite a big departure for you to go Harper and Row.
I had one book by McGraw-Hill, Helen Verbato.
But this is, let's face it, this is a major, and the phrase goes, publishing a magazine, a literary magazine.
Well, I offered it to Framingham.
Well, you didn't have the money.
I'm physically pleased.
It's such a big artifact.
To do it.
I'm trying to answer free paper and to do reproductions and all that.
You must be really quite proud of it.
Do you hold with that argument?
Yeah, I'm very happy.
I mean, it's something I love together.
Then I offered it to Don Allen at Great Fox Press, because that was also alternative publishing.
But he didn't have the facilities, money and distribution.
I did an interview with this Russian novel, Vassily Akshanov.
I know him from Moscow.
Yeah, lovely man.
He told me of a Russian, I don't know if it's a testament either.
Basically it amounts to a Russian writer writing for the draw.
His eyes only for a variety of reasons, obviously.
Metropole is one example of that, I guess.
How old was that?
How old was that, which is what I'm...
Basically, I was going to ask the next question.
Have you ever written for, you know, your eyes only and those of a selected circle of friends?
And tell me about this experience, about writing, not for a general population of readers as such, but for what amounts to yourself.
Well, when I wrote Hell, I didn't have any readers.
I didn't have any books.
I had hardly no home to publish.
I had one, two unpublished books, Gates of Wrath and Empty Mirror,
which are unpublishable.
I wasn't long enough known for anybody to be interested in my juvenilia.
And I decided I was a complete failure as a poet anyway.
Partly because my poetry was too deliberate and too academic.
And I realized that Carol had to write
How old are you?
About me?
Yeah, I haven't talked to you since Kiara.
No.
Formalistic and I wasn't really saying the way I talked.
I wasn't really writing the way I did.
I was more eloquent in bed.
And I was on paper.
And so I wrote one poem that I thought was really an exquisite, elegant poem and real on the basis of a dream of Joan Burroughs, Burroughs' wife.
I saw her in a dream.
And we had this conversation.
She asked me what Bill was doing, how I was knocking and what was Jack doing.
Then, in the middle of the dream, I realized she was dead.
I suddenly got surprised and said, Joan, what kind of knowledge of the dead?
Do you still remember your mortal acquaintances?
She faded in front of me.
In her place I saw a rain-stained tombstone reared in an illegible abodaf under a gnawed branch under a small tree in the wild grass of an unvisited garden in Mexico.
So that was like a funny dream.
I haven't used mine.
Take this.
So I wrote it out, and it's in that book, Dream Record, 1955, which is about the last poem before Howell.
It took me one before Howell.
And I sent it to Rex Rawls.
He said, ah, still academic.
Still a Columbia College boy.
I went to learn a book.
I went to Yale.
Get out of that.
And I thought, well, I can't write it.
The poem's good, but it really is kind of stiff.
I'm in such a great visionary moment, and all I could do was make it a sort of sonnet-like format.
You know, lines all even.
So...
I gave up on writing.
He said, well, I'll write something that won't publish.
I'll just write writing.
I'll just write whatever I feel like, whatever I'm thinking about.
The purpose for what, though?
I mean, better than seeing a shrink?
I mean, therapy, self-therapy, writing.
I was seeing a shrink.
Who was saying, why don't you write what you feel like?
What are you trying to perform to?
I don't know exactly.
I used to read poetry about Tiazoni.
But did you think at the time that what you were doing had literary merit?
No, I thought it wasn't poetry.
And on top of that... Well, I talked about the first part of how it was semi-intact.
in an afternoon.
I revised it a lot later, but the main phrasing and the main structure is the same.
The first line is about the same.
Starving mystical naked instead of starving hysterical naked changes the whole meaning of the ceremony.
Well, I was smarter than that.
I'd be that fundamental.
There's a lot of how it's humorous, actually.
I don't think people understood that.
I think one thing people should appreciate is that you are a very humorous writer.
I mean, there's a lot of, there are a lot of very funny lines.
What does he mean here?
Sort of an extra academic view is that how is a poem a pure anger?
No humor, no perspective about it.
It's total anger.
It isn't starving mystical naked, it's starving hysterical naked.
So there's like a chapter in this sort of...
Goofiness about it.
How did you respond to that?
That was a very interesting note.
In the time interview, he quoted the Time Magazine observation, 58, that you were a rebel without a cause.
Time still has to happen.
The time review of the book is mainstreaming Allen Gisbergs.
One eye on eternity, one on the market stock, market share.
$160,000 contract.
Blah, blah, blah, blah.
How an irrelevant historical odyssey.
Kaddish is the great one.
They just want to be right, even if they have to... Then the worst part...
was to substantiate the view that how was a historical anachronism not of interest.
They quoted one line, Moloch, Moloch, spectral nations, invincible suburbs, demonic industries, invincible manhouses, period.
But the line actually continues, Granite cocks, monstrous bombs.
Monstrous bombs is what gave the line validity all along.
You have a series of semi-hysterical rantings and all of a sudden the reality of demonic industries, monstrous bombs.
that loops the line back into grounding.
They cut out the... They actually have to amputate the line in order to... How could they do that?
It greets me, but they've been doing that all along.
Well, because they wrote in 1960 or something, like, this is the sound of a hysterical woman screaming at the back of a police car.
Wild-eyed poet Allen.
So now they have to keep their record clean.
Well, they're consistent in any case.
Yeah.
Well, that's what I mean.
So they won't have to say, well, they were wrong.
Has this... I guess it can be said that you have achieved a degree of notoriety as a public figure.
That's easy to say.
And that's the Bocatian stereotype.
Talking circumlocutiously here, I guess, but notoriety...
has this affected the public, not the public, but the literary evaluation that you work with?
Oh, yeah.
That's the stereotype of the public buffoon.
No, from notoriety to buffoon.
Rather than from notoriety to skillful means.
I mean, there is a historical function of the poet.
I mean, the role.
The poet is an agitator historically in many...
Oh, it can be public hero in Butler Byron.
It can be public pariah critic in Dante.
Public fraud buffoon goof.
Treat Walt Whitman, who got fired from his job in the customs house for having a dirty book in the drawer.
where Nicole can be seen by his contemporary shallow critics as...
any of those models, or to be appreciated, maybe over-appreciated, like the Laureates, or made into a historic cultural fossil, like Kerouac's critics would make them.
But my own thinking is I know what I'm doing, and I'm doing as best I can as trying to be candid in public and speaking.
As I talk to my friends, my most intelligent friends, talk in public the same way and try to break down the schizophrenic difference between what we say and acknowledge to each other in private
and what can be said and acknowledged in public.
Why should the two be the same, though?
Isn't there a place where things should be said in private as it comes to the same things being said in public?
Things that should be said in private are the things that the cops will get you for.
Like in China.
Or Russia.
You can talk one to one with people and they'll tell you what they really think about it.
I'm wondering if, you know, things that you might say with a lover or a wife or whatever.
You know, you wonder if there are certain things that probably should stay between a couple people.
It's all right.
No objection.
But there are some things that we say in private that would be all right to say in public.
Like women saying, I'm being abused and being used and manipulated by the male chauvinist scene.
Blacks saying I'm being kicked around and rejected.
Gay people saying...
I feel normal.
What is it?
What is all this putting me down for?
NAMBLA, people from the National Man-Boy-Lavestation, people, people... I think they had a press conference in Boston about two years ago.
I'm a member of NAMBLA.
I think that... Oh, absolutely.
Absolutely.
Because they're just talking about what they're thinking and feeling.
And for that speech, they're not an organization to seduce boys, they're an organization to discuss that.
And the FBI is treating them as if they were communist revolutionaries.
And the straight press is using them to try and split the gay movement.
Say, you straight gays should be denouncing these boilers.
It didn't help them to have this kind of ironic kid to come up at the press conference and say, well, I'd have trouble with a two-year-old.
I mean, I'd have trouble, I guess,
A good follow-up would have been, well, how about a three-year-old?
And just keep on going to the point where it's okay.
They're easy to make fun of if you're interested in making fun.
They're easy to persecute if you want to make fun.
I'm a father of young children, so it's a matter that's concerning, to justify it.
Well, I think they're saying something.
But you're saying that they have the right to say, and that's the purpose of their being.
Freedom of speech.
That's what they are.
And they're being persecuted as an organization by the FBI and infiltrated.
And they go around with a man with a spokesman and get them kicked out of their jobs.
Is that right, really?
Oh, yeah.
I didn't really think that it was much of an organization.
It's not.
Well, that's why I joined.
You joined it, really.
Yeah, because I think they were being, a trip was being laid on them as a public whipping boy beyond the needs of... This really opens you up.
I mean, this is almost making you trouble when you do something like that.
I think that compared to the things that have been said about them, they're much more honest.
Particularly Time Magazine saying this is a group of people who exploit people who are weaker and more
defenseless than themselves.
Because it's actually what Time magazine does all the time in the public.
Exploiting and manipulating minds, exploiting and manipulating people that are weaker and more defenseless and weaker, in one other word, inexperienced than themselves.
I think it's exactly the S&M in public that people like Time
and the television media do to people wrong.
I think television violence is ten times worse than anything Namla proposes.
Ten times worse than any television violence actually causes rape, murder,
stealing theft.
Well, I don't want to get into a discussion about NAMBLA.
Well, I wouldn't want to censor television.
But NAMBLA, if you ask them, you check with them what the FBI has done with them in terms of trying to fuck them around.
Besides which, the whole NAMBLA case rose out of this superannuated virgin DA who used to run for
Boston District Attorney, I forgot which, Boyle?
He's not, I think, right?
He used to have a homosexual scandal every time he ran.
And the big, the start of the Nambla scandal was a raid on some so-called boys' houses in Lena Revere, in which he was manipulating that to get votes.
as part of his usual semi-annual anti-gay campaign.
If you look into, I'm just talking about the politics of the Napoli thing.
It makes my blood boil.
But I mean, any organization that comes out like MAMLOF,
It's setting itself up.
For police state attacks.
It's not according to the U.S.
Constitution.
I understand.
That's what I'm talking about.
But you're talking about a sitting duck, especially with... Homosexuality used to be a sitting duck.
It's not homosexuality.
Lesbian is not homosexuality.
I don't think.
Well, I should say I like 14-year-old boys.
Three or four or five or six.
I don't think anybody's making up with them.
I don't get that type of philosophy.
That's why I said this morning.
A kid got up there and he said, well, I'd have trouble with a two-year... Of course, that was the clip that went on the news.
I'm sure I selected that.
That still sounds like the press exploiting and manipulating vulnerable people, rather than presenting the actual coherent statement in that book.
That sounds like the press on its S&M game.
I mean, it's a two-edged sword.
When you start, you know, trying to prevent people from talking.
Anyway, I don't remember them now, but... You know what?
I got lots of stuff.
Okay, I got time.
It began with Byrne.
In fact, I got up on television and defended Nambl at one time and said, well, I remember I was some guy in Revere Beach when I was there the summer of one year.
Took out his member and tried to get me to take out mine.
It didn't bother me.
Oh, God, there was a barrage of phone calls saying, how dare you put this person on the air and say what he thinks.
I would say there's a distinction between... I'm fascinated to have this.
It's not going to get into my... I don't mind.
Thank you very much.
I believe, depending the weak and the innocent, and in this case, I think it's the weak and the innocent being manipulated by...
the politicians and the press, for the worst of reasons, for commerce and for vote power.
And I don't think, I don't think the politicians and the press are either reporting accurately what NAMBLA is, you know, reporting what the whole NAMBLA is.
I got a feeling that you are as supportive of them as...
It's strictly one of their constitutional right to free speech.
I mean, I'm on the right track here.
I also feel sympathetic to man-boy love.
Say 13, 14, 15.
Remember, Czechoslovakia, the age of consent is 15.
Central Europe, the age of consent between boys and men is 15.
Old Greek practice.
Remember, the parents used to get the teacher when the kid was in adolescence is 15.
That's nothing new in human history.
But to be able to talk about it, even?
But to talk about it, clearly.
Well, what about doing it?
But talking about it to be persecuted by the FBI?
No.
That's going too far.
What would be the purpose?
I mean, is that the purpose of the organization, to talk about it?
Yeah.
Why do you need a national organization to talk about it?
Because Byrne was busting that free house where there were relations between young boys, but not Daniel.
I think there was one case of a nine-year-old kid who was the youngest, and that was sort of like ambiguous whether anything happened really, but that wasn't the whole scene there.
The main scene was runaway boys being taken care of by older men, developing an interesting relationship.
The police grabbing the kids, beating them up, and forcing them to rat on the older guys against the will of the kids, and traumatizing the kids and abusing the kids a lot more than the older men did.
Because the older men actually had a relationship and the police were just using the kids.
And then Vern was using them.
This is a long story.
And it would be almost impossible to... Because I don't remember it all now.
But I have all the old enamel bulletins with all the actually descriptive accounts of police coercing and intimidating the kids and the kids... Well, allegations.
Yeah.
And then the kids on the stands complaining about how the police had treated them.
And that wasn't reported in the paper.
None of that was.
Let's face it.
The cops think this is a very good bus, right?
Right.
The cops think this is a fine bus while the Narcotics Bureau is working with Cosa Nostra penalty penalty.
Can you have a couple of months?
No, I have it at home.
I was supposed to pick up some cash from there.
In other words, if you delve deeply, a little more deeply under the surface of the news stories and the cop stories, it's like, remember that old scandal from Boise?
The boys from Boise?
Oh, that was in the 50s or 60s.
There was this whole town that went on an anti-gay campaign.
on the similar basis than it all turned out to be.
The cop was stealing money and was trying to cover on himself by creating a scandal and a big political... Well, it was a big case out there.
I don't know where, but out in the Midwest someplace.
Everyone was accusing everyone else of child molestation.
You see that case?
Yeah, they're not staying.
It turned out not.
It turned out that somebody inside was on a camera.
I doubt very much that Nambla represents anybody who's making out for those kids under 10 or 12.
I bet it's just pubescent kids and somebody might argue against it.
and somebody might argue for it, but it's something that you could talk about.
Maybe you can't talk about it, but something that people talk about in private and discuss in private more sanely than they do in public.
Or with more humor.
But the question came down to why talk in public the way you talk in private?
Have you been in Russia?
You know why.
If you've been in China, you know why, or in any communist country.
We were around in the 50s, in literary circles, and observed the fact that Henry Miller was illegal, like grass or something, or Nambla, that Burroughs was illegal, that John Cheney was illegal, that Lord Rochester was illegal, that translations of Catullus were illegal, and the classic stuff was illegal, that Shakespeare was one time Bolgara, the Bible was Bolgara.
Thomas Bolgara.
you'll realize that politicians can get away with double talking because the literature is also restricted to euphemism and if you can extend the range of literature to include the speech of ordinary men like Worthworth said it will ultimately affect political speech in
coerce more candor and frankness in political speech.
And Regan's acting and faking and television triumph is part of a wave of trying to roll back on censorship that the moral minority is putting through.
It's part of the same mentality, I think.
Would you like me to send you a copy of this?
Oh, yeah.
I'm going to run.
I'm going to go out, if you don't mind.
The press, the media, Reagan and the media going along with it, they're doing it to Nicaragua as rape and illegal terrorism and the cultivation of international terrorism.
While hypocritically they're announcing, I remember the CIA said after it was discredited in the late 60s and early 70s, the CIA said the main international problem we have to concern ourselves with is international terrorism.
And now it is precisely the CIA that's practicing international terrorism.
They're talking out of the side of their mouth one way and acting another.
And they've got a courier mandate to continue it.
Well, they don't have a public mandate to continue the war on the ground.
Yeah, but it's public apathy.
I haven't really seen a... They don't have a legal mandate, either in international law... Well, that's the point I'm making, that the government is acting illegally and encouraging terrorism, practicing terrorism, and hypocritically denouncing terrorism.
And until people print that in the newspaper, just in those words...
It's never going to be got across to the public, and the public will be apathetic, because the press is treating it, you know, well, Reagan's got a mandate, so anything he does is allowable, because the world is the world, and that's real politics, and I would want to be a sore thumb and start talking straight turkey in the newspaper, because my face will stick out, and I'll be considered a flake.
It's the same thing as 1950.
My face will stick out, and I'll be considered a plague, and I'll get a mark on my record, and I will get a good job as the PR agent for McDonnell Douglas or whoever.
That's a tough one to get into, I'm sure.
Honeywell.
Local.
Data General.
Digital.
Wang.
Wang is a mole.
Did you know that?
Oh, but he loses.
The guy has made the city wealthy.
Is he Chinese?
He's Chinese.
I don't know if he's from mainland China or away, but he's been here about 30 years.
And 20 years ago, he just had a little place, a little lab out on $495.
And now the guy, his net worth is $1.6 billion.
one of the three or four richest men who were powered in the country.
And I mean, this guy is now, all of a sudden, Lowell used to be Greeks, French, Irish, everybody genuflexed in this way.
You know what?
I hate that run.
I'm taking a look.
From Silk, the wagon part.
Lowell, Silk City.
Wasn't it actually?
Patterson was Silk City.
No, Lowell was the city that was created to learn all those looms and textile looms.
Other canals or more canals there than anywhere else.
I had a meeting with Patterson, but Patterson is the Silk City.
Silk City... This is called Lowell Spindle City.
Patterson was nicknamed Silk City.
Or the Venice of America.
They can't take you back.
I think because of the canals.
Okay.
Thank you.
Hey, Barb.
Just look at the little shitty camera.